From 1992 to 1993,
I worked in a technical assistance company.
After a while, my boss
asked me to lie to the clients,
telling them that they
would receive new parts
when actually they were refurbished parts.
So I said: “No way!”
I wouldn’t do that.
I said I’d prefer to be fired rather than
do something that would displease Jehovah.
Not only that,
but my supervisor was verbally abusive.
Sometimes he would throw my lunch
in the trash on purpose just to be mean.
Sometime later,
my supervisor became very sick.
I made the most
of the opportunity to witness to him.
He said that he had moved
from the neighborhood,
was studying the Bible, and that the brothers
were visiting him at his home.
Before he died,
he said that he was very happy
that he was learning about Jehovah.
This showed me that with Jehovah’s help,
we can keep our integrity
and also help others to get to know him.
When I started my training as a bank clerk,
my being one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
didn’t seem to be a problem initially.
Not much later, though,
my superior called me in.
She told me
that it actually would be a problem
if customers saw me in the ministry
and that I should simply stop preaching.
I explained to her that I never intended
to harm my employer’s interests.
But to stop preaching—I could not do that.
I was still
in my employment probation period.
Two weeks later, I was summoned
to the Human Resources Department
at the bank’s headquarters.
They politely requested that I quit preaching
and that I should think twice
about what was more important to me:
my employer’s interests or my ministry.
I respectfully explained that to me
Jehovah is the most important
and that I would continue preaching.
My probation period ended,
my training continued,
and during the rest of my apprenticeship
it was never mentioned again.
I am really grateful to Jehovah.
It was he who gave me
the strength not to compromise.